R markdown presentation (#87)
worldbank/dime-r-training: Presentations/CE-r-markdown.Rmd

knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/rendered-docs.png")
```

---

class: inverse, center, middle
name: markdown

# Markdown

<html><div style='float:left'></div><hr color='#D38C28' size=1px width=1100px></html>

---

# Markdown

- As we indicated previously, the text part of R Markdown follows the syntax of Markdown
- Markdown is a lightweight markup language. It's similar to Latex or HTML, but simpler
- Markdown was designed to be easily readable while allowing to define text format

---

# Markdown - Headers

- Headers in markdown are preceded by pound (`#`) symbols
- Additional pound symbols denote a lower level in the headers hierarchy

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "100%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/markdown-headers.png")
```

---

# Markdown - Paragraphs

- Text not preceded by special symbols is a regular pragraph.

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "70%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/markdown-paragraphs.png")
```

---

# Markdown - Text emphasis

- Emphasized text is enclosed by special symbols.

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "70%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/markdown-text-emphasis.png")
```

---

# Markdown - Lists

> - Markdown allows to use ordered and unordered lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Markdown allows us to use both ordered and unordered lists.
```

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "60%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/markdown-lists.png")
```

---

# Markdown - Links

- Lastly, we can also include links as text in Markdown.

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "60%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/markdown-links.png")
```

---

class: inverse, center, middle
name: r-code

# R Code

<html><div style='float:left'></div><hr color='#D38C28' size=1px width=1100px></html>

---

# Including R code

- R code in R Markdown goes inside **fenced code blocks**, as the one below

````
```{r}`r ''`
# Your R code goes here
```
````

---

# Including R code

> - You can type the fenced code blocks directly or go to `Insert` > `R` in the script panel of RStudio to create a new block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To add new block, you can type the fences directly, go to `Insert` > `R` in the script panel of RStudio, or type `CTRL + ALT + i`
```

---

# Including R code

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "80%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/r-markdown-r-code-echo-F.png")
```

---

# Including R code

- To include R code but not the output, we can use the option `eval = FALSE`

````
```{r, eval = FALSE}`r ''`
data(mtcars)
summary(mtcars$mpg)
```
````

---

# Including R code

```{r echo = FALSE, out.width = "80%"}
knitr::include_graphics("img/r-markdown/r-markdown-r-code-eval-F.png")
```

---

class: inverse, center, middle
name: r-plots

# R Plots

<html><div style='float:left'></div><hr color='#D38C28' size=1px width=1100px></html>

---

# Including R plots

- Adding R plots is similar to adding R code
- Include the code producing the plot in a fenced block
- The block option `echo = FALSE` is useful when we only want to include the plot but not the code producing it

---

# Including R plots

## Exercise 4

Include an R plot in your document.

1. Create a new header named `R Plots` at the bottom of `markdown-template.Rmd`
2. Create a new fenced code block with the option `echo` set to `FALSE`
3. Add the following code inside the new block:

```{r, eval = FALSE}

> plot(mtcars$wt,

Author: @luizaandrade with this plot I wanted to keep a balance between showing something that is not complicated so the data vis code syntax doesn't distract from R Markdown and including a plot not distractingly ugly, while not having to import an external library (like `ggplot2`) for it

Reviewer: That seems fine to me. I'd mention it during the presentation, though: just say that if they have taken our R course, they probably know this is not our preferred way of making plots, but that for this session we only wanted to use base R so we don't need to get into discussing packages.
